So I want to hide this away I want to keep this safe in a layer so we can duplicate it and use it again
and again.
So what I'll do is press the End key to bring up the move to layer panel.
And I'll just move it to this layer way over here.
So now it's way over here.
Hopefully going to stay safe so we don't have to recreate this every single time.
So all duplicate this with shift D and click and now I'll press him to move to layer and move it back
to the first layer here.
OK so now we have one here and one way down here our template This one here now.
I'll change the name of this or call this one tops and this is going to be our one top Lego block.
Now let's work on creating the rest of the Lego block.
So I'm going to hit the N key on the keyboard to open up the properties panel and now I can see as I
move this object up I can see how far moving it here in the z axis.
So I'll move it up well let's just type in one.
I'll just type in one and hit enter.
And now we've moved it up a one unit along the z axis.
Now it's kind of difficult to tell if that's going to be high enough.
If we moved it up to let's see how high that was.
That may be a little bit too big.
Let's use one and let's work with it from here.
But what we can do is we can actually bring in a reference image to Blendr and have it up on our screen
while we model.
To help us get the proportions correct.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come over here to the Properties window and there's a little
corner tab right here if I click on that and I drag down.
I can create a brand new window and in this new window here I can change it to any type of window that
blender has available so I can click here and change it from the properties panel to a 3D view or a
graph editor or a U.V. image editor.
This allows us to bring in images so we can see them here in blender so I click on the open button here
and I'll browse to the folder where I have my reference images and if I click on this button right here
I can display thumbnails for the images so click here and here you have the reference images.
Select this one and click open image.
So now we have a visual reference of what we're trying to create right here in our blender interface.
So this is the one that I'm trying to create right here.
So the question is is this tall enough and it doesn't seem like it is to me it seems like if I move
it up like this or maybe even a little higher that looks a little better.
So what I can do is actually type a 1.5 here into the z axis and let's go with that.
Let's see if this works I'll press the tab key to go into edit mode.
And now what we want to do is we want to use our extrude tool but this time we're not going to extrude
faces.
We're going to extrude edges.
So if you select an edge of course you can then press shift select to add to that selection or what
you can do is you can also hover over an edge press the alt key and click and that will select an entire
edge.
So I can tumble around here and hold the shift key and then Allt and click and that will now select
this entire edge and I can do the same thing for these as well.
Shift alt click shift alt.
Click.
So now we've selected the edges around our one top template here.
I'll now press the e key and I'll immediately hit the enter key and what that did.
Is it extruded those edges.
But it didn't move them at all.
Now what I can do is come to my move.
Manipulator here and click and drag down and now we're creating all new faces based on the edges that
we selected.
So I'm going to come right down here to the grid floor and it still doesn't look like that's tall enough
here.
Does it mean to go out and move it all the way down.
To negative to and that's looking a little bit better.
Maybe even a little bit farther like that.
I'm just trying to get the scale and proportion to match the image now so that the bottom isn't left
just unfinished here.
I think what I'll do is I'll hit the key one more time to extrude these edges.
Let me and then I'll hit the enter key and now what I'll do is I'll press the s key and then I'll move
the mouse and scale these in just a little bit like that to create kind of an edge or a lip there at
the bottom of the block and then I think all I need to do is just hit me and click or press the enter
key and then I'm going to drag up like that just to kind of close it off up there.
I don't think we'll ever be seeing all the way up into the block but that at least gives us some geometry
here at the bottom.
All right so there is our Lego block.
Now it's a little well blocky.
It would be nice if we could get these slightly curved edges the way you see them here.
Nothing in the real world is exactly 90 degrees sharp.
You can see the way that these slightly curved edges kind of catch the light and that really helps provide
more realism to our objects so what we can do is add a subdivision surface modifier to them and that
will help smooth out and round out the edges of the object.
So what I'll do is come down to our existing subdivision surface modifier and turn it on so we can see
it in the viewport.
And there it is.
Now we need to add more edge loops to hold those edges a little bit sharper.
So once again I'm going to turn off the subdivision surface modifier for a moment and I'll begin adding
some edge loops around these edges to hold them a little tighter so to do that I'll press control our
and I'll place one here and control are in place one here and I'll just do the same thing around the
edges.
Here and one here
I'll also place an edge up here and control our and click and drag down to the bottom and click here.
Let's see how that works.
I'll turn on the modifier again.
And there we go.
And hit the tab key and you can see I'm beginning to get these rounded edges that allow us to catch
the light of the scene making it a little bit more realistic.
All right so I'll tab back into edit mode.
Turn off the modifier for a moment and then I'll add a few more edge loops down here at the bottom.
So control are.
And now that I have an edge placed here what I can do is I can scroll the mouse We'll just roll the
mouse wheel and you can see as I do it adds edge loops.
So I just scroll the mouse wheel so I get two edges here and click and click again.
And then I'll add an edge loop up in here like that let's see how that works.
Turn on the modifier hit the tab key.
And then we go it's looking pretty good.
Now in the next video we'll take a look at using our template to create a two top Lego with two tabs
on top just like this one.